when you think of asteroids if ever you
do just don't picture Rocky celestial
bodies flying somewhere between the
planets asteroids are much more curious
and unique did you know they can contain
huge amounts of valuable elements or
that some asteroids can be unimaginably
expensive it's true
asteroids come in a variety of shapes
and sizes one of the largest is beste
its diameter is bigger than the length
of the Grand Canyon the smallest
asteroid ever observed is smaller than a
car but what are asteroids scientists
call them minor planets because they're
too small to be real planets and can't
be classified as comets asteroids orbit
the Sun in the asteroid belt that lies
between Mars and Jupiter
scientists believe that asteroids formed
as a result of collisions in the past
billions of years ago ancient planets
crashed together the planets burst into
pieces larger fragments became asteroids
smaller ones are called meteoroids some
come too close to our planet's orbit and
even fall on earth most meteorites don't
make it to our surface though they burn
up in the atmosphere but the largest
known intact meteorite is named koba
koba fell to earth in prehistoric times
but was only discovered a century ago in
Namibia this iron meteorite weighs as
much as 10 elephants because of its
large mass towboat remains in the exact
place where it fell this car-sized
meteorite is the largest piece of iron
of natural origin on the planet and
though it seems big it's nothing
compared to the asteroids in space when
it comes to meteors though jewelry could
literally fall from the sky if you want
to know how well some meteors are made
of diamonds gold nickel and platinum but
sorry to disappoint you
you won't find a gold meteor right here
on earth because when it enters the
Earth's atmosphere it heats up to such
incredible high temperatures that
precious metals mouth
and evaporate maybe fallen meteorites
won't make you rich but what about the
ones in space a few years ago a small
asteroid zoom past our planet it's so
small it doesn't have a name just a
number
2011 uw 158 it flew very close to Earth
and gave scientists an opportunity to
observe it hey you know the old saying
you can observe a lot just by watching
they found a lot of platinum and other
valuable elements possibly up to five
trillion dollars worth of metals 2011 uw
158 could have made you rich but too bad
it's gone
are there other asteroids that could
make us rich yes this one is a real
out-of-this-world treasure 16 psyche
called the golden asteroid psyche is one
of the biggest asteroids in the belt the
amount of iron on psyche is so high that
it could satisfy people's needs for
thousands of years the asteroid also may
contain platinum iron nickel
the total value of all metals in psychie
is about 10,000 quadrillion dollars that
number is 10,000 followed by 15 zeros
count them all this money would be
enough to make all people on earth
billionaires the US Space Agency is
getting ready to launch a spacecraft to
explore the golden asteroid the flight
will last around five years and the stay
on Saiki will take 21 months
scientists intend to investigate the
asteroid to learn more about Earth
why because psyches composition is
similar to the core of our planet
together with its size this leads to the
theory that 16 psyche could be the
remnant of the core of a planet very
similar to earth scientists have special
hopes for metal asteroids since they
could be mined and used to build
spaceships in space colonies asteroids
move through space yes but with a
certain trajectory their path is set by
gravity s roids usually rotate but not
quite like the earth does their rotation
isn't so smooth because the asteroids
aren't spiracle because we can map their
path we might be able to mine them but
asteroid mining could lead to the
collapse of the global economy and it
might not make us rich because if we
mined too many precious metals from
asteroids they won't be rare and
valuable on earth anymore
luckily metal isn't the only valuable
resource up there astronomers say some
asteroids have frozen water inside them
people could use it to produce rocket
engine propellant for possible space
colonization in the future some
companies already think that mining
asteroids is a good idea - how would
they do it well they would use three
possible methods the first
would be to bring raw asteroid material
down to earth and use it here the second
would be to process the materials
on-site out in space we need a spaceship
and specialized tools for that but the
wildest idea is to bring the asteroid
closer to the earth to mine it doing
this would require robots that would
anchor the iron asteroid with simple
magnets and pull it to a safe orbit
around the moon or the earth the
asteroids with less metal could be
caught with special harpoons or claws
and then be mined safely we know
asteroids can be dangerous though just
look at what happened to the dinosaurs a
big asteroid hitting a planet can cause
earthquakes tsunamis and raise so much
dirt and debris in the atmosphere that
it would block out the sunlight no
worries though space agencies are always
keeping an eye on them and making sure
that none are currently on a collision
course with our planet what else is
worth a lot of money up there well the
most expensive man-made object is also
in space and that is the International
Space Station it took roughly 150
billion dollars to build it and
maintaining and supporting the ISS cost
three to four billion dollars a year ISS
circles the planet every 90 minutes
which means astronauts on board see the
Sun set every hour and a half but the
most expensive thing know is dark matter
it's also the most mysterious substance
it doesn't absorb reflect or emit light
so it's completely invisible to study
dark matter scientists need very complex
and expensive tools such as xenon gas
the cost of all this is no less than ten
million dollars making dark matter a
very expensive material or anti material
with a cost of a million trillion
trillion dollars per ounce but you can't
get free shipping with Amazon Prime yeah
space exploration can be a very
expensive enterprise but technologies
developed during that exploration are
used every day on earth like digital
cameras maps internet global
communication and weather prediction
this is all thanks to the efforts of
scientists
astronauts